[Post content]
The ability to see how new COVID-19 case numbers are trending is 
an important tool for not only authorities and healthcare workers, 
but also those of us sitting at home thinking "Are these restrictions 
actually having an impact?" #covid #covid19data 

[Article Draft]
Gaining a clearer understanding of trends in new COVID-19 case data

The below graphs have been developed using R Studio and follow the 
methodology of Aatish Bhatia and the team at MinutePhysics.

The way daily new COVID-19 case numbers are reported in the media can 
make it difficult to understand whether the public health measures and 
restrictions are working to get us on top of the spread or whether cases are 
continuing to grow exponentially. Particularly when there are large numbers
of new cases daily or their rate seems to be growing quickly, as we have seen 
around the world, and recently in Victoria.

With so much at stake in regard to lives, livelihoods and the broader economy, it 
is important for authorities to quickly understand where case numbers are heading. 
Further, it is important for those of us at home to see whether the restrictions 
and other public health measures are working to slow the virus spreading and making 
any real progress.

With exponential growth in COVID-19 cases, the number of new cases is proportional 
to the total number of infections. Thus the graph focuses on the rate at which new 
case numbers are increasing with respect to the total number of confirmed cases, 
rather than simply plotting new cases against time. Further, by using the logarithmic 
scale on both x- and y-axis, we can easily see whether we are getting a handle on the 
growth in new cases as the plotted line will drop away from the 45-degree line that 
represents uncontrolled exponential growth in case numbers. 

First wave - Australia, NSW & VIC
[INSERT GRAPH]

As public health measures, such as testing, isolation, physical distancing, mask 
wearing and contact tracing, are introduced we would expect to see a divergence of 
our plotted line down from the exponential growth line, as we would hope these 
measures are working to stop the spread of the virus.

A key feature of the graph is the use of new case numbers from the past 7 days, rather 
than daily new case numbers. This enables us to identify “real” trends in the data, 
particularly as testing capacity can vary throughout a week resulting in high 
variation in confirmed new cases.

First wave - Australia, NSW & VIC
With new case confirmations continuing to grow in Victoria by the hundreds, we can use 
these graphs to see how effective the public health measures have been to slow the 
spread of the virus.

[INSERT GRAPH]

... include brief analysis of trends shown in the graph

Limitations
The graph is designed to highlight deviations of new case numbers from a rate of 
uncontrolled exponential growth. As such, it is not ideal for identifying a resurgence 
of cases or when trying to look at case numbers across multiple waves. For this reason 
I have split graphs into “First” (cases from 25 Feb through to 6 Jun) and “Second” 
(cases since 6 Jun) wave graphs.


References
Data: https://www.covid19data.com.au/states-and-territories

YouTube video by minutephysics :-


